>> So what I'm going to do
is talk a little bit about
the Knights Templar and see if
we can answer that question that
Tim actually brought up.
Are the Knights Templar the
guardians of the Holy Grail?
Well, it's an
interesting question.
But before you
can answer it, you
have to define what the
Holy Grail is, right?
Well, what is the Holy Grail?
Some people think
that it's the cup that
was used at the Last Supper by
Jesus and his guests, right?
That's one possibility.
Another is that the
Grail is treasure.
Gold, silver,
jewels, or whatever
it is that you would
define as treasure.
Some people think that
the Holy Grail are relics,
meaning biological
remains of people
and other fantastic
ancient artifacts.
Some people believe
that it's actually
the bloodline of the royal
family going back through Jesus,
Mary Magdalene,
John the Baptist,
through Egyptian royalty and
beyond to the Atlanteans.
Some people think it might
be alchemy or science,
as Tim talked about at length
just a few minutes ago.
Others think that it's
spiritual enlightenment.
That is the Holy
Grail, achieving
spiritual enlightenment.
Others think that it
is the sacred feminine,
the vessel of the sacred
feminine giving new life, right?
Maybe that's the Holy Grail.
Still others think that it might
be the new Jerusalem, which
Tim also touched on
and I'm definitely
going to touch on today.
So again, we need to
define what this thing is.
And we're going
to start by where
I started my whole journey
on this whole thing
with the Kensington Runestone.
Now how many people
have not heard
of the Kensington Runestone?
OK.
A fair number.
Well, I'm going to tell you
a little bit about this,
and then we're just
going to run off
into all kinds of
different fun quarters.
So here we go.
This stone is 31 inches
long, 15.5 inches wide,
about 5 and 1/2 inches
thick, weighs 202 pounds.
It's quite heavy.
I've lifted it a
number of times.
And it was found in Minnesota
back in the fall of 1898.
And that circle, the x with the
circle is where Kensington is.
It's about a two-hour drive
from Minneapolis Saint
Paul, where we live.
And in the fall of 1898, the
guy standing in the middle,
a Swedish immigrant farmer
by the name of Olof Ohman,
was clearing trees
in preparation
for farming with
his two oldest sons.
Now this is a painting that I
had commissioned many years ago
that shows the actual moment
of discovery of the Kensington
Runestone, where Olof Ohman
said he took a grub ax,
and he cut off the roots
around the base of this tree.
He took a winch and then he
tipped over this roughly 25
to 30-year-old aspen tree,
according to 12 witnesses that
were present shortly
after the discovery.
And when the tree fell, the
roots came out of the ground,
and almost directly
underneath the tree
was this 202 pound stone.
It was the younger
son, Edward, who
first noticed that there was
a long inscription carved
in Scandinavian ruins.
Now there's a 125-year long
tortured history about this
artifact.
And I'll just tell you that
the scholars blew it badly.
And we're not going to
go into those details,
but just take my word for it.
Because if you google
and you get Wikipedia,
you google Kensington Runestone,
it will say that it is a late
19th century hoax, and
that's absolutely ridiculous.
But in any case, I want to
read the inscription to you
because we're going to come
back to this in a little bit,
and this is the
thing that they've
been debating for 125 years.
It starts with the number
in the upper left hand
corner of what I call the face
side of the inscription right
here.
That number eight
is very sacred.
We'll get to that
in a little bit.
But it says eight
Gotlanders, people
from the island
of Gotland, we'll
talk about in a little bit, and
22 Northmen on this acquisition
business/taking up land from
Vinland far to the west.
Now I don't know
why it is that I'm
the first person in the
history of this artifact
to say it's a land claim.
I mean, acquisition
business taking up land?
What does that mean to you?
How come nobody else said this?
Seriously.
I mean, what the heck?
From Vinland far
to the west, we had
a camp near 2 shelters, 1 day's
journey north from this stone.
We were fishing one day after
we came home, found 10 men red
from blood and death.
And then we have three
Latin letters, AVM.
Now those of you
who understand Latin
know that U and V
are interchangeable.
And I personally think
that it means AUM.
You heard Tim talk
about that for a second
in the previous lecture.
And then the last line, line
nine, it says, save from evils.
On the split side of the
stone, and the reason
I say split side
is because whoever
carved this inscription
took a larger slab of rock
and intentionally split it down
to the final shape that you see.
So on that split face, there
are three more lines of text
that say there are 10
men by the inland sea
to look after our
ships, 14 days journey
from this island, year, 1362.
Now remember, 1362 is 130
years before Chris Columbus.
You know the guy that never
set foot on the continent
that we now call the United
States that already had millions
of people living here?
I mean, the whole thing
is nonsense, right?
But this is what we all
grew up with, right?
This BS story about Columbus.
But that's another story.
So obviously, that didn't fit
the narrative of the time.
So it had to be a fake,
and it was dismissed.
So let's flash forward
from 1898 to the year 2000.
And here I am looking at
the Kensington Runestone
the first day that it
was brought into my lab.
Now I run a materials
forensic laboratory
in Saint Paul, Minnesota.
I'm a geologist by education.
I'm a licensed
geologist by profession.
And in our laboratory, we do
material forensics or autopsies
on concrete and
rock, if you will.
If the concrete has low
strength, if it cracks,
if the top comes off,
they send samples to us.
We'll analyze it.
We'll figure out what
caused the problem.
And then of course, the big
question they want to know
is whose fault is it?
Who's going to pay, right?
And so that's what we do.
We work with inorganic
materials, rock and concrete.
And in 2000, I was approached
by a representative
for the Runestone Museum.
They said, we'd like you to look
at the Kensington Runestone.
And I said, what is that?
I never heard of it.
I didn't know anything about it.
Everybody else around
me knew what it was.
And the only thing
I can conclude
is I must have missed
school that day.
I had no idea what they
were talking about.
But eventually, after we
had our initial discussion,
I could tell this person was
an advocate for authenticity.
And I said, look, I'll
do this work for you,
but you have to understand
that when I get done,
I may come back and give you
news you're not going to like.
And you're still
going to pay me.
Because the
beautiful thing is it
doesn't matter what the results
are, I get paid either way.
Now not to brag, but we have
done some pretty amazing
projects that we've
worked on over the years.
We looked at all the fire
damaged concrete at the Pentagon
after 9/11.
We looked at all the concrete
at the condo collapse
in Southern Florida
and some other things.
So we've done some work.
And I like to think
the reason that they
came to us is because we
know what we're doing.
But if you go on
the internet, you'll
get all kinds of crazy stuff.
And all I can say to people
that want to be famous
is careful what you wish for
because you might get it.
Anyway, and you can see what
the Runestone has done to me.
I used to have dark hair.
Not anymore.
So the Runestone is a
very complicated rock.
It's comprised of 16
different minerals.
It's actually a
Paleoproterozoic metagreywacke.
I don't see anybody
writing this down.
There's a quiz later.
Come on.
So this rock is
very complicated.
It has lots of minerals.
So I had a lot of
minerals to choose from
to do my weathering study.
And at the end of the day, I
chose these flat platy minerals
right here, which
are called micas.
And basically, what happened is
this rock was a glacial erratic.
The glacier plucked it
up out of the bedrock
and carried it presumably
into the Kensington
area where these guys found it.
They split it down, and
then carved the inscription,
and buried it roughly
a foot into the ground.
And so what I did was I took
a core sample out of the back.
I drilled a hole and
pulled out this core.
And so when you snap it
off, basically you're
looking at the rock
that's unweathered, right?
It's fresh.
And what happens is you
get a surface like this.
Micas are very soft.
They have about the
hardness of playing cards.
So when it fractures, or
breaks, or cracks, or carved,
it will fail along
the weakest minerals.
That's why we see
these platy minerals.
But on the top of the core, when
that glacier was dropped off,
dropped it off, it had a surface
on the entire surface like this.
But what we have now, 10,000
to 12,000 years later is this.
All the micas are gone.
Now I wasn't surprised
to see this at all.
In fact, I expected it.
I knew that over 10,000
years of weathering,
these would all come off the
surface through mechanical,
and wetting, and drying,
and freeze-thaw processes.
But what I didn't
expect is what happened
when I took a chip sample
off the split side that
was made at the same time the
inscription was carved, right?
You can't carve on a
surface until you create it
on that split side.
And when the image came up in
the scanning electron microscope
at 500x magnification,
I started laughing.
All the micas were gone.
I knew intuitively that that
took a long time to happen
and that it was impossible
for this farmer who
was accused of carving
the stone to have done it.
Now I then went and
did a tombstone study.
I had to go to the East Coast.
I took samples with permission
off of Revolutionary War era
tombstones.
And I just went back in
time on these tombstones
until the mica minerals,
same mineral grain
size, same weathering
environment
at above and below grade
until those minerals
began to come off the surface.
That happened at
about 200 years.
On the Runestone, they're gone.
So the Runestone inscription.
So my conclusion
was the weathering
is older than 200 years.
But that's from 1898 when it
was pulled out of the ground
because it hasn't been in a
weathering environment since.
So guess what?
It's authentic.
And that's what I said.
I wrote my report,
I published it,
and then I was ready to move on.
Not so fast.
That's when the deluge came.
That's when the criticism came.
That's when people were
treating me like feces.
Now I'm an old football player,
and I'm easy to get along with.
But you get to a certain
point where that's enough.
And so I asked the people, I
said, look, I'm not perfect.
I make mistakes.
Point out where I made a
mistake, and I'll fix it.
I didn't make a mistake.
They just didn't like the
result. Well, toughen up.
Sometimes, life
doesn't go your way.
And then it got ugly.
And then I got pissed, frankly.
But there's one
thing that I did.
My faith was well
founded in the rock.
Rocks don't care.
Rocks don't have agendas.
Rocks don't have egos.
And the rock said
it was authentic.
Everybody else said it was fake.
I trust rocks.
I don't trust some people.
So the rock says it's authentic.
That means the next
three things I'm
about to show you have
got to also be true.
Logic demands that they're true.
If this is a real artifact, it
means that somebody carved it.
They came from some
place over in Europe
because the old Swedish
language on the stone.
And they came over here
for some reason, right?
That's what I said about trying
to figure out after all this.
I said, the hell with
all these people.
The hell with these scholars
that obviously don't know
what they're talking about.
By the way, my colleagues in
geology that reviewed this work,
they all said it was good.
So at that point, I took
five trips to Sweden,
from 2003 to 2005.
Because if this thing is
authentic, like the rock says,
that means all the language
ruins dialect, grammar, dating,
history, everything must be
consistent with the 14th century
if it's real, right?
So I went over there
and found everything.
Oh, my god.
This just pissed
'em off even more,
that this dopey ex-football
player went into their backyard
to find what they were too
lazy to look for, right?
Because it's a fake, why bother?
The rock was right.
Of course, the rock was right.
But one of the things
that I realized
was that all the evidence, all
the language, runes, dialect,
grammar, features that
were on the Runestone,
I found on grave slabs,
medieval grave slabs
on this island in the
middle of the Baltic Sea.
Anybody ever heard of Gotland?
OK.
That's where all the
people in the region
go on vacation in
the summertime.
It's part of Sweden now, and it
was part of Sweden back then.
And that's where all
the evidence was.
Now the other thing that
you have to understand
is that the only person
capable of carving
an inscription of this
complexity and length
had to be a member
of the clergy, right?
At that time in
the 14th century,
the common people weren't
educated by design.
So what clergy did
we have on Gotland?
One, and only one.
OK?
You got to understand something.
This is totally new
to me at this time.
I know nothing about clergy
and about the Cistercians,
who are the only clergy that
we had on Gotland at that time.
What's interesting is that there
were 99 churches on this island.
And I went to every one because
I'm an anal retentive lab
guy, right?
All Cistercian.
And boy, I learned
a lot of cool things
about these white monks, who
were led by this guy, Bernard
de Clairvaux.
How many people have
heard of Bernard?
OK.
A fair number.
This guy is one of the
most important figures
in the history of the world, and
hardly anybody knows who he is.
Now, Tim touched
on this briefly,
but I want to dive a little
bit deeper into this.
Bernard joined the order
in 1113 that had already
been founded around 1095
by Robert Molesme, who
established the first
abbey at Citeaux France.
Bernard joined the order at
Citeaux with 30 family members,
including the first grand
master, Hugues de Payens,
who was his uncle.
Another one of those original
nine Knights was also his uncle.
And they all joined
at the same time.
Now make no mistake.
This was intentional, and it
was a coup d'etat in the making,
and it was all planned.
Now two years later, Bernard
founded the first daughter abbey
at Clairvaux.
That's why they call him
Bernard of Clairvaux.
And by the time he
died in 1153, there
were over 300 Cistercian abbeys
all across Europe, Scandinavia,
into the Holy Land.
Now think about that.
The growth, the explosion
in the growth of this order
is incredible.
It would make McDonalds blush.
No, I'm dead serious, right?
Anyway, by the time
the order was-- oh.
Well, by the time the Templars
were put down in 1307,
they were over 750
Cistercian abbeys.
They became immensely wealthy
through animal husbandry,
farming, shipping, and selling
at these merchant fairs.
They completely redid the
whole economic model of Europe
at that time.
But what's also
important is Bernard
was the one who wrote the
charter for the Knights Templar
order.
He was the one.
And he was their
guardian, basically.
He was what they
call a pope-maker.
There was no important
decision in Christendom
that was ever made
without his counsel.
We cannot stress the
importance of this guy.
Now you've got to remember, I
know nothing about this, right?
I just followed
the evidence trail.
It took me right
to the Cistercians
and right to the Templars.
That's how I got
to the Templars.
Now people criticize me for
saying, oh, it's the Templars.
Isn't that convenient?
It's always the Templars.
No.
Follow the evidence trail, and
it'll take you right to him.
That's how it happened.
That's Hugues de
Payens right there.
Now at this point, I
want to just do something
that I haven't
talked about before,
but Tim and I agreed it's
time that we talk about it.
And that is the
true Templar lineage
begins with the Atlanteans.
And he touched on this.
Basically, the ideological
and biological ancestors
of the Atlanteans are
these Burgundian families
that founded the Templars and
actually were the Templars.
And the reason they came
back is in the year 1000,
when the church said that
the Messiah would return,
and he didn't, they
were vulnerable.
And that's when they struck.
Their method was brilliant
because they aligned
with the Roman Catholic Church
pretending to be Catholic
when in fact, they embraced an
ancient ideology that goes way
back to the Atlanteans, the
pre-flood, the pre-Younger,
Dryas period.
And that was about 13,000 years
ago when something catastrophic
happened that the Atlanteans
knew was going to happen.
So they prepared
for this cataclysm,
and they hid their technology.
And Tim talked about
this at length.
Their history, their
knowledge of the world,
about technology, science,
alchemy, all of it.
And they left it for their
ancestors to recover someday,
to eventually take
that knowledge
and rebuild the new Atlantis, as
brother Francis Bacon coined it.
And they began that work in
1100 by founding the order,
capturing Jerusalem.
And it wasn't for Christendom.
It was to establish a base
of operations in the region,
so they could go into Egypt,
into Lebanon, and Jordan,
and Israel, and collect that
stuff that they knew was there.
They didn't discover anything.
This was a recovery mission.
And these are some of the
things that they recovered.
Now Tim showed you this
cross on this Sumerian
bas-relief carving, and that
is the equilateral cross
that became the red cross on
the white mantle or white tunics
of the Knights Templar.
But that was the
symbol of Atlantis.
And it became the
symbol of the Templars.
And it's also found in
the Indigenous cultures
because they know
all about this too.
I'll talk about them
in a little bit later.
There you have it.
So Tim talked about Egypt
and about the Temple
of ISIS and the
Templar cross graffiti
from our ideological ancestors.
I'm also a Knights Templar.
But they carved their graffiti
at these important places
where they spent their time.
Tim talked a little
bit about Gobekli Tepe,
but there's another site that's
only 2 and 1/2 miles away called
Bendall Tepe.
And if you look from
these drone footages,
you can see the remnants of
some ancient diggings and/or
some ancient structures.
And this is that picture
that I got from some people
and I gave to Tim.
And Tim said,
absolutely, this is
Templar graffiti from their
time spent at Gobekli Tepe.
Now most people know
what that site is, right?
It's basically an
ancient observatory.
Very important, this
whole concept of as above,
so below in a real sense, right?
A practical sense.
They were there.
Gobekli Tepe is only 2 and
1/2 miles from Bendell Tepe,
from this site.
So it's probably all
part of the same complex.
But keep in mind, Gobekli Tepe
was covered up 13,000 years ago.
The reason they
covered it up is they
knew a catastrophe was coming.
Probably our solar
system interacting
with a meteorite shower or
some type of cataclysmic event.
I think it was a meteor shower.
There's other theories.
But the Atlanteans knew
it was going to happen.
And then you talked about
all the underground tunnels.
This is where a lot of
these people survived.
Just the people that
survive are the ancestors
of our Templar order.
And there's Gobekli Tepe.
Now getting back to
the Templars early on.
Now remember, this
was my research.
I did all this on my own, and I
came up with these conclusions
that a lot of people
seem to agree with me.
One of the things
that was obvious to me
is that the Templars had a
fascination with the Virgin Mary
to the point where even
some of the popes said,
we like the Virgin Mary too, but
you might want to dial it back
a little bit.
One of the things that a
lot of people don't realize
is that Bernard has
been made into a saint,
and all the saints have what
they call their miracle that's
associated with them.
Bernard's miracle
basically is he
was preaching to the brethren
in the monastery one day
in the church, and
there was a statue
of the Virgin Mary behind him.
And at one point,
he turned around,
and the Virgin
exposed her breast
and squeezed milk
into his mouth.
Now if you think I'm
making it up, look it up.
It's the single most
common image of Bernard
by two to one over
the next common image.
So the point is they had a
fascination with the Virgin
Mary, but she didn't
represent the Virgin.
She represented Isis, the
goddess, all the goddesses,
right?
And so they venerated her.
And you see, here's a 14th
century depiction of the Goddess
protecting the nuns
and the monks equally.
Because what you're
seeing here is actually
a depiction that represents
their true ideology and belief
systems, which was
monotheistic dualism.
Now on the Kensington
Runestone, there
is a symbol that's being used
for the letter A or the A sound.
And this is not the
rune that it should be.
And this is one of the
problems that the scholars
had with the Kensington
Runestone inscription.
This is not what's
supposed to be there.
So it's not there, so it must
be wrong, so it must be fake.
No, that's flawed logic.
All it means is you've
never seen it before.
How about work on it?
How about figure it out?
How about they didn't?
But we did.
And what we determined
was that this actually
has some important symbolism.
If you take an x, you chop
it in half horizontally,
the lower part makes a sword,
a phallic symbol of the male,
right?
A v is a vessel, a chalice, the
womb, the symbol for the female.
When you combine them
together in an x,
you get this allegorical union
of male and female, heaven
and Earth.
Good, bad, light, dark.
The concept of
dualism, opposites
that keep things in balance.
So that's pretty easy to
handle, but what's the hook?
And I didn't know what this was
until I gave my first lecture
to the Freemasons
before I became
a Freemason many,
many years ago.
And I asked the question,
and a guy raised his hand,
and he said, a child?
And I went, bingo.
That's right.
Because it hit me
just like that.
And if you look at it,
basically what we have here
is a little girl, right?
Inside the womb of Mama with
daddy down below, right?
Some people say it
represents the Holy Trinity.
What's the Holy Trinity?
Father, Son, and the
Holy Spirit, right?
What's the Holy Spirit?
The point is it's not
well defined, is it?
No.
That's on purpose, by the way.
Actually, what it means to
me is you got the father,
you got the child.
Who's missing?
Mama, right?
Maybe that's the Holy Trinity.
I think that's exactly
what we're seeing here.
But it represents the
essence of their ideology.
They believe in a single deity
that had dualistic aspects that
keep things in balance.
That was what this symbol means.
Very important.
Oh, yeah.
Somebody talked a little
bit about Egypt too.
And if you look here,
this is King Tut.
And if you look at
his father, Akhenaten
is holding the cross,
crook and the flail.
And this also gets into
precession of the equinoxes
and the transition from Taurus
the bull to Aries the ram.
And that's what's
being depicted here.
You have the flail,
which herds the bulls,
the followers of Taurus,
the old religion in Egypt.
And the crook herds the
rams, the sheep of Aries,
representing the
new religion, right?
And his attempt with that
symbolic crossing on his chest
represented his attempt to
unite the two religions.
But it failed.
And of course, the
rest is history.
But that's how far back
this ideology goes.
But in fact, it goes back
over 13,000 years ago,
pre-flood times.
So let's just spend a
little time for fun,
looking at some of the esoteric
aspects of the Kensington
Runestone that are
consistent with who
we say carved this inscription.
The Templars.
Well, first and foremost,
I've talked at length
about how they split it down.
And funny, it just so
happens to be a two to one
ratio of what we call an
oblong square in Freemasonry.
And why is that important?
Well, it's important for a lot
of reasons, but one of them
is the key to sacred geometry.
Now if you take two circles,
and you push it together,
and you end up with
three equal spaces,
you end up with this
vesica piscis in the middle
of that two to one ratio.
Now this serves as the
key to sacred geometry
I'll get to in a sec.
But it also represents
symbolically
the allegorical birth canal
of the great goddess, right?
Where life comes from.
So it's very important
for a lot of reasons.
It's also one of the six
arms of the Flower of Life.
You guys have seen that before.
But in within that vesica, we
have two equilateral triangles.
The equilateral
triangle in Freemasonry
is a symbol of deity, the great
architect of the universe.
And then it just goes
on and on from there.
You get the tetractys, and
it just goes there forever.
But it is the key
to sacred geometry.
Now this one I have to
give Janet credit for.
We were looking
at the Runestone.
And one day, she just
took a tape measure.
And she said, uh-oh.
Look at this.
There is a sacred measurement
that all the megalithic sites
found around the world were
used to build them with,
and that's called
the megalithic yard.
And it's calculated
using the movements
of the most accurate
heavenly body in the sky,
and that's the planet Venus.
And so you use a pendulum,
and you watch the arc
over a particular period.
And then you will generate
the megalithic yard,
which is 2.722 feet.
And when she took
that tape measure
and went across
the Runestone, it's
exactly one megalithic yard.
Or it's a coincidence.
I'm going to go with A, OK?
All right.
Now I want to tell you
guys about a discovery that
happened when I became a
Freemason in November of 2015.
And for those of you, how many
brothers do we have in the room?
I know we got two for sure.
And that's it?
OK.
Well, I'm going to tell you guys
just briefly what Freemasonry
is.
So when you first
become a Mason,
you go through what we
call the blue lodge.
And it's associated with water
and birth, amniotic fluid,
and all that stuff,
because you are literally
going to be reborn at
some point in the degrees.
It's made up of three degrees,
the entered apprentice,
the fellowcraft, and
the master mason.
And at the end, when you're
done, you're on the squad,
you're a full fledged
Mason, and you
can stop there, it's all
good, and have a great time.
However, if you're
interested in seeking
additional light, the
code word for knowledge,
there's a couple of
routes that you can take.
One is called the Scottish
Rite, and the other
is called the York Rite.
Now if you go through
the Scottish Rite,
you start at the fourth degree.
It builds off of the blue lodge.
There's a total of 29 degrees
for a total of 32 degrees.
And then there's a
33rd, which is honorary.
And if you even talk about
it, you'll never get it,
so we're not going
to talk about it.
But the 32nd degree is amazing,
and I have gone through those 32
degrees.
The York Rite is a
little different.
It's made up--
It also builds off
the blue lodge,
and there's 10 additional
degrees for a total of 13.
Now 13 is a very
important number.
It's part of the
Fibonacci sequence.
It's also the number
associated with the feminine.
13 synodic cycles
of the moon, right?
When women have their
menstrual cycles.
This is why we call the
moon, the moon goddess.
It's also associated with Venus,
I'm not going to go into that.
But it's also associated
with Mother Earth, right?
That's the trinity of the
feminine in the heavens.
But again, it starts
with the blue lodge,
and then there's 10 additional
degrees for a total of 13.
But those 10 degrees are
broken up into three groups.
One is called the royal arch.
The next group, and
that's four degrees.
the next group is the Cryptic
Council, that's three degrees.
And the last are the
chivalric degrees.
And you end up being knighted
as a Knights Templar,
and I have also done that.
Now as I was going
through these degrees,
specifically in the
Cryptic Council,
something happened
that probably only
would happen to me because of my
deep knowledge and understanding
of the Kensington Runestone.
So when we go
through our degrees,
they're made up of part
theatrical performance and part
lecture.
And after the
theatrical performance,
there's usually a lecture that's
given by one of the white hats,
often by the white hats.
Those are the 33rds.
And during this particular
degree, and a lot of our degrees
take place at various
times in biblical history.
And this one took
place at the time
of the completion of the
first temple in Jerusalem.
And there are
three grandmasters.
King Solomon, Hiram Abiff,
and Hiram King of Tyre,
which is in Lebanon, where
all the supplies came from,
the wood and the workers.
And they decide in this
degree that they're
going to build a secret vault
nine levels below the sanctum
sanctorum, the Holy
of Holies, right?
Where the Ark of the Covenant
and all the true treasures
inside the Temple of
Solomon were kept.
And they decided they were going
to put a copy of all these two
treasures in the secret vault.
So the degree takes place,
and I don't want to talk
specifically about it.
But it gets very
bloody at some points.
Somebody is killed, and
a lot of stuff happens.
But at the end of the
degree, one of the white hats
was lecturing.
And remember, the three grand
masters built the secret vault.
And then he said, and the
other eight arches were
built by 22 men from Gebal.
And I went, eight and 22?
Those are the first two numbers
in the Kensington Runestone.
I didn't hear another
thing after that.
So as soon as the
degree was over,
I went to my Masonic
mentor, John Friedberg.
I said, John, is there
a ritual book for this?
He said, yes.
I said, give me that.
And I went through it.
And oh, my god.
I couldn't believe it.
It was in this degree.
So there's a lot more to this,
and I wrote about it in my book,
but I just want to touch on
a couple of the high points.
So the eight arches
and the 22 men,
there's two guards that
take place in this degree.
One of them gets killed.
Another guy-- I always
struggle with, Zerubbabel?
OK.
Discovers the secret
vault. He wasn't
supposed to go down there.
And most of us know that there's
a lot of stuff in the Ark.
There isn't just one
thing in the Ark,
at least according
to our tradition.
But one of the things most
people know about that's
in the Ark is what?
Ten Commandments, right?
And men, red from
blood and death.
And there's a copy down below
in the secret vault, right?
So there's another copy.
Another 10.
And 14 is important.
It has to do with the
Isis Osiris mysteries
that Tim talked about.
How Osiris went looking to
visit his brother, his uncle,
and he was killed,
cut up into 14 pieces.
And Isis flies over
and collects 13 pieces
because she's the
feminine, right?
And she finds everything
except his phallus.
And so she crafts one either
out of beeswax or gold,
and she impregnates
herself, Horus is born,
and then the whole
story starts over again
because all it is an allegorical
story about life on the planet.
Birth in the spring,
death in the fall,
resurrection on the
winter solstice.
New life, right?
Where have we seen
that story before?
Oh, yeah.
At church.
In any case, so this
was a revelation that,
to my knowledge, I'm the
first person to pick up.
But what it tells us is that
the carver of the Runestone
was deeply initiated in
the Enochian mysteries.
One of the things it says in the
ritual book is that their hours
of labor were from 9:00 at night
until midnight when all prying
eyes are closed and sleep.
Well, nine plus what is 12?
Three, right?
Nine lines of text on the
face, three on the side,
for a total of 12.
Probably another
coincidence, right?
So anyway, I started
really digging into this.
And I started looking at
different spiritual avenues
of pursuit.
And I look carefully at the
Kabbalah, Hebrew mysticism.
And specifically
the Tree of Life,
which is very interesting
because it's comprised of 10
spheres that connect
to create 22 paths that
rest on three pillars.
There's a very important
aspect of the number three
that occurs on the Runestone.
For a total of 32 emanations
of deity with the hidden 11th
sphere that creates a
33rd hidden emanation.
Does that sound familiar at all?
So just look at the
Runestone for fun, right?
Eight plus 22 is what?
30, right?
Plus 2 shelters, 1
day's journey north.
Probably another coincidence.
So at the end of the
day, you can look at it
from a number of
different angles.
And I think all of us
at one point in our life
want to examine those
big questions in life.
Is there a God?
What happens when I die?
And so on, right?
And there's all kinds of
different ways to do it.
Some people do it through
organized religion.
Some people do it on their own
through, some spiritual pursuit
and study.
But at the end of the day, what
usually happens to people is it
all comes back to what?
You, right?
So I looked at that.
So let me ask you this.
Do you know how many bones you
have in your spinal column?
33.
Here's the cool part.
Do you know how many bones
you have in your skull?
Eight in your cranium, 14 in
your face, for a total of what?
22.
This is kind of cool.
You know how many hooked X's
there are in the Runestone
inscription?
22.
And there's 14
individual numbers.
There are 10 strange W runes
that the scholars struggled
with, and there eight
strange U runes there,
all confirmed within
the inscription.
There is so much complexity
within this inscription.
And according to the Wikipedia,
which is the world's resource,
right?
This immigrant farmer was
the one that carved this.
It's ridiculous.
Anyway, Kensington Runestone
was carved by the Templars.
It was placed as a land claim
at the Continental Divide.
And back in the 14th
century, both the French,
the Templars headquarters
was in Paris, France,
and the Dutch had a land claim
practice where if you could
prove you navigated the
headwaters of a river system,
and placed a land claim
stone in the ground,
and a tin plaque in the
tree for redundancy,
you could lay claim to the
entire river system and all
the land associated with it.
So theoretically, with
the Runestone was placed,
and again, nobody else has ever
talked about this because logic
tells you if they put
it here in Kensington,
they put it there for a reason.
They didn't just do this
stuff willy nilly, right?
Well, theoretically, at
Kensington, Minnesota,
you could lay claim to
the Red River, Hudson Bay
watershed to the north and the
Mississippi Missouri watershed
all the way down to the gulf.
That's about half
the continent, OK?
Now we're starting
to cook with gas.
But the Runestone
inscription says
from Vinland, which is the
northeast coast of North
America, far to the west.
That could be interpreted as
the entire continent I think.
So that's its purpose, and
the Templars put it there.
And we'll get to
why they did that.
Now this is an interesting
stone structure.
It was also built
by the Templars
around the same time
as the Runestone.
It's a round cylinder placed
on eight heavy columns.
And Janet and I were here
about a couple of years ago,
and I flew the drone, and
I got this beautiful shot.
But you will see that
there's a bunch of windows
on different quadrants
of the tower,
and there's actually smaller
windows up at the top.
And what they do is they
capture astronomical alignments.
It's like Gobekli Tepe.
It's an observatory
in one structure.
Now these are Knights
Templar, 2-story round church
architecture.
This is in Cambridge, England.
If you take this first
story ambulatory off,
it's the Newport Tower exactly.
There's eight
round heavy columns
with round Romanesque
arches in between.
This is in Tomar.
Now this one isn't
round at the top,
but it's octagonal with
eight heavy columns.
And it's illuminated with gold,
and it's absolutely stunning.
The first time we ever saw it,
we literally fell to our knees.
It was just incredible.
So this architecture
is spot on the same.
As I said, there's all kinds
of astronomical alignments,
including something that's
fantastic that happens
on the winter solstice,
which is December 21st,
which also happens
to be my birthday,
or as Janet likes to
say, the shortest,
darkest day of the year.
Thank you for that.
Anyway, so something
happened in 2007,
where a local person
took a picture,
and was giving a presentation,
and just showing his pictures.
And he showed a picture of
a light box illuminating
this egg-shaped keystone
in the Newport Tower.
I went, oh, my god.
I know what that is.
And so I went there
on December 21st,
and I captured these pictures
of the south window creating
a lightbox.
That slowly but
surely as the sun
rises on the morning
of the winter solstice,
that lightbox moves
down, and it frames out
the egg, the only true keystone
on the inside of this tower,
at exactly 9 o'clock
in the morning, which
happens to be an important time
of medieval monastic prayer
to those Cistercian
monks and the Templars.
Interestingly enough, when
we publish this several years
later, somebody put a GoPro at
the base of one of the columns,
looking up at the egg.
And on May 1st,
which is Beltane,
a very important Celtic holiday,
the east window illuminates it
as well.
You can't make this stuff up.
You know what Wikipedia
says this thing is?
A windmill.
This is such nonsense.
It's not even round
for Christ's sake.
Give me a break.
They don't want this
thing to be true.
Now when I was out
there in 2007 by myself,
I walked around to the
outside of this archway.
And I looked up--
oh, by the way,
look at the
dimensions of the egg.
Exactly one megalithic
yard when you add them up.
Must be another coincidence.
So I go to the
outside of the tower,
and I look in the archway.
Back to back with the egg,
together is this keystone right
here.
Royal arch.
Remember in Tim's
lecture, he talked
about the Statue of
Liberty holding that tablet
and the notches at the top?
It's the notch keystone.
The reason it's
notched at the top
is because the honor of
placing the final keystone
in a structure by a
medieval stonemason,
he was given the honor, and
he would notch that and then
put it in there, and he
would put his masons mark
on that stone.
And I didn't know
this at the time.
And I'm looking at
this thing, and I'm
seeing these notches and
this round red granite orb.
And I'm looking at it, and I'm
like, what's up with these?
No, I did.
I was talking to it seriously.
And I said, what
are you pointing to?
And I look to the west,
and it hit me like that.
I'm not making this up.
And I went on Google Earth,
and I did the whole stretch.
I did it all.
And watch this.
So if you draw a line from
the center of the tower
through those two archways.
And I want to point out that it
is not centered in the archway.
It's actually 2 and 1/2 degrees
off on a 360-degree circle.
It's not centered.
No self-respecting medieval
stonemason would do that.
So what does that tell you?
They did it for a reason, right?
So if you draw a line from
the center of the tower
through those two keystones, the
only keystones in that tower,
and you extend that line into
space, guess where it goes?
Kensington, Minnesota
to the Runestone.
OK.
You cannot make that up, right?
So I published this in
my Hooked X book in 2009.
And I've already told
you a lot of people
out that don't like me,
and they sure as hell
don't like this research.
Do you think, if somebody could
have proven me wrong by now,
that I wouldn't
have heard about it?
You know what I've heard?
Crickets.
Because this is spot on.
And what does that tell you?
They're connected.
Whoever did the Runestone
did the tower and vice versa.
And there's only one
group that could have.